README.md, before:

Poky Container
========================
This repo is to create an image that is able to run bitbake/poky. The main
difference between it and https://github.com/crops/yocto-dockerfiles is that
it has helpers to create users and groups within the container. This is so that
the output generated in the container will be readable by the user on the
host.

The instructions will be slightly different depending on whether Linux, Windows or Mac is used. There are setup instructions for using **Windows/Mac** at https://github.com/crops/docker-win-mac-docs/wiki. When referring to **Windows/Mac** in the rest of the document, it is assumed the instructions at https://github.com/crops/docker-win-mac-docs/wiki were followed.

Running the container
---------------------
Here a very simple but usable scenario for using the container is described.
It is by no means the *only* way to run the container, but is a great starting
point.

* **Create a workdir or volume**
  * **Linux**

    The workdir you create will be used for the output created while using the container.
    For example a user could create a directory using the command
  
    ```
    mkdir -p /home/myuser/mystuff
    ```

    *It is important that you are the owner of the directory.* The owner of the
    directory is what determines the user id used inside the container. If you
    are not the owner of the directory, you may not have access to the files the
    container creates.

    For the rest of the Linux instructions we'll assume the workdir chosen was
    `/home/myuser/mystuff`.
    
  * **Windows/Mac**

    On Windows or Mac a workdir isn't needed. Instead the volume called *myvolume* will be used. This volume should have been created when following the instructions at https://github.com/crops/docker-win-mac-docs/wiki.


* **The docker command**
  * **Linux**

    Assuming you used the *workdir* from above, the command
    to run a container for the first time would be:

    ```
    docker run --rm -it -v /home/myuser/mystuff:/workdir crops/poky --workdir=/workdir
    ```
    or, if you have SELinux in enforcing mode:
    ```
    docker run --rm -it -v /home/myuser/mystuff:/workdir:Z crops/poky --workdir=/workdir
    ```
    
  * **Windows/Mac**
  
    ```
    docker run --rm -it -v myvolume:/workdir crops/poky --workdir=/workdir
    ```

  Available options:
  * **_--help_**: show help message and exit.
  * **_--workdir=WORKDIR_**: This causes the container to start in the directory
    specified. This can be any directory in the container. The container will also use the uid and gid
    of the workdir as the uid and gid of the user in the container.
  * **_--id=ID_**: uid and gid to use for the user inside the container. It should be in the form uid:gid.

  The previous example should put you at a prompt similar to:
  ```
  pokyuser@3bbac563cacd:/workdir$
  ```
  At this point you should be able to follow the same instructions as described
  in https://docs.yoctoproject.org/brief-yoctoprojectqs/index.html

Commit message:

README.md: clarify aim of poky-container
It has been reported that developers new to containers try to obtain
meta-data inside the poky-container, which leads to users reporting
false errors.

Specify the goal of poky-container and explicitly state that meta-data
must be retrieved outside the container.

Fixes: Bugzilla - Bug 11385
Closes: https://bugzilla.yoctoproject.org/show_bug.cgi?id=11385
Suggested-by: Henry Bruce <henry.bruce@intel.com>
Signed-off-by: Javier Carrasco <javier.carrasco@wolfvision.net>

README.md, after:

Poky Container
========================
This repo is to create an image that is able to run bitbake/poky. The main
difference between it and https://github.com/crops/yocto-dockerfiles is that
it has helpers to create users and groups within the container. This is so that
the output generated in the container will be readable by the user on the
host.

The instructions will be slightly different depending on whether Linux, Windows or Mac is used. There are setup instructions for using **Windows/Mac** at https://github.com/crops/docker-win-mac-docs/wiki. When referring to **Windows/Mac** in the rest of the document, it is assumed the instructions at https://github.com/crops/docker-win-mac-docs/wiki were followed.

Running the container
---------------------
Here a very simple but usable scenario for using the container is described.
It is by no means the *only* way to run the container, but is a great starting
point.

* **Create a workdir or volume**
  * **Linux**

    The workdir you create will be used for the output created while using the container.
    For example a user could create a directory using the command
  
    ```
    mkdir -p /home/myuser/mystuff
    ```

    *It is important that you are the owner of the directory.* The owner of the
    directory is what determines the user id used inside the container. If you
    are not the owner of the directory, you may not have access to the files the
    container creates.

    For the rest of the Linux instructions we'll assume the workdir chosen was
    `/home/myuser/mystuff`.
    
  * **Windows/Mac**

    On Windows or Mac a workdir isn't needed. Instead the volume called *myvolume* will be used. This volume should have been created when following the instructions at https://github.com/crops/docker-win-mac-docs/wiki.


* **The docker command**
  * **Linux**

    Assuming you used the *workdir* from above, the command
    to run a container for the first time would be:

    ```
    docker run --rm -it -v /home/myuser/mystuff:/workdir crops/poky --workdir=/workdir
    ```
    or, if you have SELinux in enforcing mode:
    ```
    docker run --rm -it -v /home/myuser/mystuff:/workdir:Z crops/poky --workdir=/workdir
    ```
    
  * **Windows/Mac**
  
    ```
    docker run --rm -it -v myvolume:/workdir crops/poky --workdir=/workdir
    ```

  Available options:
  * **_--help_**: show help message and exit.
  * **_--workdir=WORKDIR_**: This causes the container to start in the directory
    specified. This can be any directory in the container. The container will also use the uid and gid
    of the workdir as the uid and gid of the user in the container.
  * **_--id=ID_**: uid and gid to use for the user inside the container. It should be in the form uid:gid.

  The previous example should put you at a prompt similar to:
  ```
  pokyuser@3bbac563cacd:/workdir$
  ```
  At this point you should be able to follow the same instructions as described
  in https://docs.yoctoproject.org/brief-yoctoprojectqs/index.html#building-your-image to build an image.

  Note that the container should not be used to clone Poky or obtain any other meta-data, which must be done
  _outside_ the container using common tools like Git, as stated in https://docs.yoctoproject.org/brief-yoctoprojectqs/index.html#use-git-to-clone-poky
